Gender discrimination is engrained in my native China’s social fabric. Female infanticide peaked under the one-child policy, resulting in twenty million “missing girls.” However, this controversial policy is the reason I am applying for law school today. Without it, Chinese fathers like mine would never invest in a daughter’s education over a son’s. My “luck” came at a tremendous cost: in a patriarchal society with a father who dreamed of a son, I was constantly demeaned for being female. Trying to prove that I was worth as much as a boy became my nightmare for two decades.
To earn my father’s approval, I threw myself into male-dominated environments, trying desperately to be the best. From age nine, when I joined the school band, to my years on the tennis team, I was always the only girl. Being aggressive, competitive, and masculine felt unnatural, but seeing my father’s disappointment became my biggest fear, and my craving for approval overrode my desire for comfort. However, my decade-long efforts weren’t enough: in high school, my father forced me to enroll in the arts curriculum instead of the sciences I enjoyed, insisting that girls are naturally less intelligent. My anger, disappointment, resignation, and aggravation intertwined. I had contorted my life to meet my father’s expectations until I couldn’t recognize myself, yet he still believed I was inferior. I was devastated. 
The sense of unworthiness followed me overseas to college. I hid my femininity under unisex clothing while a voice whispered in my head that I could never succeed. Worn down, I had begun to believe the discrimination, but I noticed the girls sitting next to me in class were confident and brave. I then met people of different races, with different sexual orientations, and from different countries. What they shared was their determination to be themselves. I wondered what made some people capable of living their lives to the fullest. Amazed by this diverse society, I joined multiple cross-cultural organizations to learn different stories and worked my way to international NPOs such as the International Monetary Fund. 
I started building mentor relationships with female leaders from all over the world. Most of them shared a similar background; patriarchal society and feudal customs are stamps on countless modern women in the twenty-first century. Even though the road was rough, these women survived the male-dominated environment one by one to keep the bright light of intelligence in their eyes forever. I want to be one of them. I told myself. I must be one of them. 
Whenever I shared my story with my mentors, they would ask me what I was truly passionate about if my father was removed from consideration. Those questions immediately took me back to high school when I was forced to quit STEM. Hard-core science, I said. After eight informational interviews with my inspiring mentor and fourteen therapy sessions, I worked up my courage to take a Statistics class, where I got my first perfect score. It was such a relief to me. The self-doubt I had buried deeply in my heart finally started to melt. I gradually rebuilt my confidence, embraced my gender, and healed the damage from the trauma my father brought to me. An ocean away from him, I could finally breathe.
STEM classrooms were far from the last all-male environment I infiltrated. I have worked in technology for two years, and I am the only female in nearly every meeting I attend. But I have found my position and mission in such environments: women’s empowerment. Just like my female mentors helped me, I am eager to help girls who share my struggle. As the leader of the EY Women in Technology organization for two years now, I was pleased to help launch the EY STEM App, an initiative to identify, inspire, and empower girls aged 13 to 18 in STEM to create a more equal future. We have expanded its impact to 14 countries, gained 23,000 users globally, and been recognized in renowned international conferences such as the Nobel Prize Summit. The fight for equality has never been easy, but there is support from many men and women. Promoting women in male-dominated industries has elicited from me the strongest sense of happiness, satisfaction, and pride in my life.
My experiences have made me determined to encourage more women to overcome gender discrimination in a world that takes our silence for granted. The glass ceilings are meant to be broken, and I have always been meant to break them.

