When reflecting on my nonlinear professional and academic journey, there is one moment that remains at the forefront of my purpose. Looking into the innocence of a student’s wide and watering eyes at the School for Deaf Children in Beijing turned out to be this defining moment. In their absolutely silent world, a gaze has the power to hit the soul directly, and with her eyes, she told me I was her superhero. While years have passed since this moment, nine months ago this image reappeared. At the time, I was bonding with clients to build relationships and leading internal business development efforts within the firm. Moving from project to project, I assisted fortune 500 clients in various industries to implement cutting-edge technologies powered by Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Innovative, client-facing, fast-paced, and impactful, my life looked exactly like what I had planned. The path to a technology partner in a top consulting firm looked promising, but I felt an undeniable void. I decided to be my own consultant and resolve the mystery of emptiness in my heart.

My enthusiasm for technology, especially data-driven analysis, began when I was fourteen. I often played with Excel using data I found online and tracked the cognitive evaluation results of the deaf child following the implementation of my new teaching strategies. I was thrilled to see technology instilling life into data to better serve others. Working towards a Bachelor of Science degree in Statistics then equipped me with the technical expertise of advanced data analysis tools such as R and Python, a stepping stone toward the peak of my passion for technology.

In the summer of 2019, I had a rare opportunity to intern at the World Bank, a position typically reserved for Ph.D. students. On day one, I received 220+ project appraisal documents (PADs) focusing on policies enhancing youth employment in developing countries. My task was to build an online digital database that hosts them within three-month. The time allocated for data collection was merely six weeks, creating the immense challenge of sifting through 22,000+ pages of single-spaced policy information written in Political Science jargon. Despite the obstacles, employing technology to better serve underrepresented communities kept me motivated. With the support of the World Bank library and anonymous heroes on GitHub, I developed a program in R that extract information from PDF documents and automatically exports results to a consolidated table. I was quickly able to determine which project’s policies contain the 63 categories we defined for the database, reducing the workstream from 6 weeks to 1.5 weeks. The database constructed is still being used today and now, when developing a new project, a policymaker can easily locate the resources they need by selecting categories such as region and cross-cutting themes in the filter section. This was the first time I participated in a technology program that promoted international social welfare, which truly ignited my strong passion for technology.

The independent research and problem-solving skills I developed thus far proved to be a huge asset in my post-graduate role as a full-time consultant. Three weeks into my role as a technology consultant at Ernst & Young, I was surprised to find that my academic training was unrelated to my job. Although challenging, this role opened the door to another pillar of technology for me: software implementation. My experience tackling a complex task outside my scope of knowledge turned me into a fast and adaptable learner. Through effective collaboration with my team, I quickly absorbed knowledge such as API and system integration. The first software I helped develop was an AI-empowered Financial Health Coach that can direct people to avoid collection, which was a human-centric and innovative pioneer during the pandemic.  The art of selling makes working in technology a walk in the park. To convince clients of the benefit of our solution, I ran through multiple mock pitching sessions to refine my presentation abilities. The most powerful feature of the supporting platform is its ability to use big data to predict a customer’s reactions to products or services, thus providing a more tailored customer service experience. I was completely in awe at the efficiency and believed technological advancement holds the key to a better world. That is until I learned how customer calls could be used to analyze temperament, and the details of their mouse trajectory and time spent on a tile of a website could be recorded to predict their behavior. This brought up inevitable questions and doubts regarding technological intrusion on privacy. I began to see the shadow behind the sunny side of technology.

In reflecting on my path so far, my memory kept returning to my volunteering position at the School of Deaf Children. Am I failing her impression of me as a superhero? Through the pair of watery eyes, I finally realized that my passion for technology stems from my dedication to humans and extending compassion to underrepresented populations. I was intrigued by technology because I thought it could remedy the world, but my dilemma didn’t last long. With 27 online privacy bills regulating the extent of consumer data usage proposed or passed, my practice started re-evaluating its engagement in various states. For my own project, location data were removed from the models. Gradually technology proved to be a double-edged sword, while the law keeps its sharp end away from people. Rather than technology, I prefer to be the buffer between it and society, as the trainer who keeps the lion of technology running in a harmless direction. 

With my intensive experience in technology, I intend to pursue a career focusing on technology law. I believe my strong data analytical skills trained in various policy research projects such as Regulation Automated Trading, combined with software implementation experience, make me a unique contribution to the legal profession. I hope to leverage the transferrable skills I gained in eight industries through thirteen work experiences to provide a fresh, creative, yet practical perspective to the field of law. I am confident that my global perspective, client-facing experience, strong communication skills, and attention to detail will give me immediate value added to social well-being upon graduation. In the flicker of my life, I am determined to devote my fullest self to protecting the general people and Stanford Law School is my necessary path to be that superhero.
